Add installation episode (#31)
ESMValGroup/tutorial: _episodes/02-installation.md

Other installation methods are also available, they can be found in the
[documentation](https://docs.esmvaltool.org/en/latest/quickstart/installation.html).
ESMValTool also contains diagnostics written in [Julia](https://julialang.org/).
Because Julia cannot be installed by Conda, we will install Julia separately.
We will first learn how to install Conda, Julia, and finally the ESMValTool.
We end this chapter by testing that the installation was successful.

## Install Conda

ESMValTool is distributed using [Conda](https://conda.io/). We will be using the Miniconda minimal installer for conda. We suggest a Python 3 based installer, though if you happen to already have Conda installed it should also work with Python 2. For more information about installing conda, see [the conda installation documentation](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/install/index.html).

### Linux

1.  Please download Miniconda3 for Linux at [the miniconda page](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html). The 64 bit version should work on any recent system. If you have problems in the next step(s) you can alternatively try a 32 bit version.

> 2.  Next, run the installer

Reviewer: Should we add here that you need an open terminal in the same directory where you downloaded miniconda?

Reviewer 2: Added

    ```bash
    bash Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
    ```

3.  Follow the instructions in the installer. The defaults should normally suffice.

4.  You will need to restart your terminal for the changes to have effect.

5.  Verify you have a working conda installation by listing all installed packages

    ```bash

>     conda list

Reviewer: It might be nice to add an 'output' code block showing what it should look like if the installation was successful.

Reviewer 2: Output added. It was clipped using `.,..` and looks OK to me.

    ```

### MacOSX

1.  Please download Miniconda3 for MacOSX at [the miniconda page](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html). 

2.  Next, run the installer

    ```bash
    bash Miniconda3-latest-MacOSX-x86_64.sh
    ```

3.  Follow the instructions in the installer. The defaults should normally suffice.

4.  You will need to restart your terminal for the changes to have effect.

5.  Verify you have a working conda installation by listing all installed packages

    ```bash
    conda list
    ````

### Windows

> ESMValTool does not directly support Windows, But succesful usage has been reported through the [Windows Subsystem for Linux(WSL)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/), available in Windows 10.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ESMValTool does not directly support Windows, but succesful usage has been reported through the [Windows Subsystem for Linux(WSL)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/), available in Windows 10.
```

To install the WSL please follow the instructions [on the Windows Documentation page](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10).

After installing the WSL, installation can be done using the Linux installation instructions.

## Install Julia

Complete instructions for installing Julia can be found on the
[Julia installation page](https://julialang.org/downloads/platform/#linux_and_freebsd).
In this tutorial, we will use the following steps.
First, open a bash terminal and create a directory to install Julia in

```bash
mkdir ~/julia
```

Next, download the file
[`julia-1.0.5-linux-x86_64.tar.gz`](https://julialang-s3.julialang.org/bin/linux/x64/1.0/julia-1.0.5-linux-x86_64.tar.gz)
by clicking the link or going to the [Julia downloads page](https://julialang.org/downloads/).
To extract the file, you can use the following command:

```bash
tar -xvzf ~/Downloads/julia-1.0.5-linux-x86\_64.tar.gz -C ~/julia
```

> This will extract the files to a folder named `~/julia/julia-1.0.5`.

Reviewer: Maybe it would be nice to verify that this file is there?

Reviewer 2: Added download location, is this clearer?

To run Julia, you need to add the full path of Julia's `bin` folder to PATH environment variable.
To do this, you can edit the `~/.bashrc` (or `~/.bash_profile`) file.
Open the file in your favorite editor and add a new line as follows at the bottom of the file:

```bash
export PATH="$PATH:$HOME/julia/julia-1.0.5/bin"
```

Finally, for the settings to take effect, either reload your bash profile

```bash
source ~/.bashrc
```

(or `source ~/.bash_profile`), or close the bash terminal window and open a new one.

To check that the Julia executable can be found, run

```bash
which julia
```

> to display the path to the Julia executable, it should be `~/julia/julia-1.0.5/bin/julia`.

Reviewer: Here you could use an output code block

Reviewer 2: Done

To test that Julia is installed correctly, run

```bash
julia
```

to start the interactive Julia interpreter. Press `Ctrl+D` to exit.

## Install the ESMValTool package

To install the ESMValTool package, run

```bash
conda create -n esmvaltool -c conda-forge -c esmvalgroup esmvaltool
```

This will create a new
[Conda environment](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html)
called `esmvaltool`, with the ESMValTool package and all of its dependencies installed in it.

> ## Conda common problems
>
> Below are some common problems that could happen while installing.
>

> > -   installation takes long time,
> >     -   downloads and compilations can take several minutes to complete, please be patient
> >     -   you might have bad luck and the dependencies can not be resolved at the moment, please try again later or [raise an issue](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/issues/new/choose)
> > -   if you have a old conda installation you could get a `UnsatisfiableError` error. Please install a new conda and try again
> > -   downloads fail due to company proxy, see [conda docs](https://docs.anaconda.com/anaconda/user-guide/tasks/proxy/) how to resolve

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> -   Installation takes long time
>     -   Downloads and compilations can take several minutes to complete, please be patient.
>     -   You might have bad luck and the dependencies can not be resolved at the moment, please try again later or [raise an issue](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/issues/new/choose)
> -   If you have an old conda installation you could get a `UnsatisfiableError` message. Please install a newer version of conda and try again
> -   Downloads fail due to company proxy, see [conda docs](https://docs.anaconda.com/anaconda/user-guide/tasks/proxy/) how to resolve
```

>
{: .callout}

## Test that the installation was successful

To test that the installation was successful, run

```bash

> conda activate esmvaltool

Reviewer: Again, some example output code blocks might be nice

Reviewer 2: Activation changes the terminal prompt, I think there are to many different prompt so I explained the change instead of showing a prompt.
